GEORGE, Samuel
SCHIQUETTI, Felipe A.
PROJECT PLAN - INTRODUCTION TO DIGITAL
FORENSICS
7 weeks to complete.
Task: 20 minutes presentation about the mobile forensics state of the art. Including
but not limiting to tools to get important info from the phones, actual use of one (or
more) of those softwares, diferences beetween SOs and how this interfere in the
forensics activity, how secure a platform is and how much info we can get from the
most important operacional systems from this platform.
Introduction:
Mobile device forensics is a sub-branch of digital forensics relating to recovery of
digital evidence or data from a mobile device. It differs from Computer forensics in
that a mobile device will have an inbuilt communication system (e.g. GSM) and,
usually, proprietary storage mechanisms. Investigations usually focus on simple data
such as call data and communications (SMS/Email) rather than in-depth recovery of
deleted data. SMS data from a mobile device investigation helped to exonerate
Patrick Lumumba in the murder of Meredith Kercher. [1]
This field is the answer to the demand of forensically sound examination procedures
of gathering, retrieving, identifying, storing and documenting evidence of any digital
device that has both internal memory and communication ability. [2]
This platform becomes more and more important in the world. And a consequence
generated by this fact is the increase of crimes related with this kind of tool. So, as a
new field, not much research was developed yet, and a lot of tools demands tests to
comprove it's usability.
The mobile devices that this field try to cover is broad and for this work the focus will
remain in the 2 biggest operational system available, iOS and Android.

FIRST WEEK - GIT preparation and Project Plan. 
Status: Done.

SECOND WEEK - Reunion to stabilish the scope of the work and to research what kind of
software leads the area. If possible, starts the tests.
Status: Done.

THIRD WEEK - Start testing and studys of how these operational systems works internally
and what is important to a forensic investigator searchs and why.
Status: In time.

FORTH WEEK - More complex testing and approfundation in what tools are available to this
kind of platform.
Status: In time.

FIFTH WEEK - Start discussing the results and start the presentation plans.
Status: In time.

SIXTH WEEK - Finnish the presentation slides and discuss about how the presentation will be
separated.
Status: In time.

SEVENTH WEEK - Finnish everything and preparing mentally to the presentation.
Status: In time.
Presentation: To be discussed.
Tools: To be decided.
Conclusions:

References:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_forensics> Acessed: 10/26/15. 
Wayne Jansen and RickAyers, "Guidelines on Cell Phone Forensics", NIST, May 2007.

